# Cabin

## Table of contents


### The Journey

Its mid-December and winter break has just begun. The CR-V is packed with food, sleeping bags, snow boots, and coats. My Dad, sister, and I hug our mom goodbye and get on our way by 1pm. It’s a long drive to Greenwater from Maple Valley, but not one that is too exhausting. The first half is boring as we take one road through Black Diamond, and then through Enumclaw. Its not until we reach Highway 410 where the real journey begins, and its here we’re reminded why we do this.  All around us are trees, and the Douglas Fir’s reach their long branches over the road creating an umbrella for us to drive underneath. As we venture deeper down the highway, we begin to lose cell service, and the trees begin to show evidence of a light dusting of snow. Soon the road disappears under a blanket of snow and travel begins to slow. After about an hour, we reach our first landmark, Wapiti Woolies. It’s a small ski lodge for us to stretch our legs and get huckleberry smoothies. Even in the middle of winter, its tradition to get smoothies. After our pitstop, we drive for another 20 minutes where we reach our last and final landmark, the Dalles Campground. Across the Dalles is where we need to go, but a steep snow-covered hill stands in our way. Dad and I get out of the car and start putting on the chains as quick as we can before our hands freeze and before long we’re climbing up the hill. To our right is a steep hill going up, and to our left is a steep hill going down. It’s a treacherous drive, but chains on the car keep churning us up the hill. Soon, we reach the top and we’re greeted with a sign in front of us, “Lane Family Cabin”, and a small bridge leading over a raging river. After we cross the bridge, we are presented with stone steps leading up the side of a hill. We climb up the hill, being careful to where to place our feet, and at the top we finally see the Lane Cabin.


### Arrival 

It’s a small building, with cedar planked siding and a metal roof. On the far-right side, there is a moss-covered stone chimney rising up and over the roof. There is an opening directly to the right of the chimney. It’s a covered walkway with split wood lined up to the ceiling on each side. There is a wood sign over each section with carved labels saying “Woodstove” and “Fireplace”.  At the end, there is a door with a padlock. My dad takes off his gloves and quickly puts in the combo and opens the door. Its dark inside and it smells of burnt wood. It’s the kind of smell that I will never forget. Presented immediately in front of us is the living room. It has 3 couches and a coffee table in the middle. Across from the couches is the stone fireplace we walked by outside. On its wood mantel, there is some candles and pictures. In the back of the cabin, there is a small kitchen with black and white tile in the very back of the cabin. The kitchen as a “U” shaped counter with cupboards above each counter. There’s an ancient looking wood stove. Its all white with its paint peeling on the corners. To the right of the kitchen there is a sunken down living room. In this living room there is a wall of windows reaching well over 15 feet high. Each window is a single pane window, each with a slightly different shape, that raises up into an arch at the top. Looking out the windows there is a beautiful scene of mossy trees and snow dusted branches. Supporting the ceiling are two sets of metal crossbars suspended in the air. In the living room there is one more couch, and a long table with 2 propane lights suspended above. My dad directs me to the stone fireplace to start a fire, while he starts a fire in the wood burning stove in the kitchen and the secondary wood stove in the lower living room. The temperature currently reads 36 degrees inside the cabin, well off of our 65-degree goal. We get to work starting the fires. 

### Evening

About 2 hours have now passed since we’ve arrived. The cabin has slowly been warming its become completely dark outside. The only light available are the propane lights giving off a soft warm glow and the fireplaces roaring away. The woodstove has finally heated to the temperature to heat our frozen dinner. Mom cooked us Spaghetti pie, my favorite. My dad pops it in the oven and starts a timer on his phone. While we wait, we decide its time to bring out the card games. Our favorite is BS, its an easy game to start with. While we play, my sister and I sip on Hot Coco while my dad drinks a beer. I’m not quite old enough yet, but maybe next year. Before long, my dad’s timer goes off and we serve up dinner. There’s something different about food that’s eaten at the cabin. It’s an unexplainable phenomenon, but it feels more real. After dinner games continue, we play Yahtzee, Memory, and Rack-O. Time flies by as we enjoy the time together away from the world and our phones. All we need is each other’s company in the presence of God’s beautiful creation. Before we know it, its 11 o’clock and we’re all getting ready for bed. My dad always opts to sleep in the lower living room to man the small stove, and I sleeping in the other living room to man the big fireplace. My sister Lily, however, heads up a small ladder by the front door to a loft. In the loft there is a full-size mattress and a twin. Next to the ladder is two 2x4’s leading along the top of a support beam, and then two more 2x4’s perpendicular lead across to the other loft, where my sister always choses to sleep. Over there is the same arrangement as the first loft. I pull off the back cushions on the couch facing the fireplace and crawl into my sleeping bag. The room is silent, except for the crackling cedar wood in the fireplace.

### Departure

I wake up to sunlight pouring in through the windows of the cabin. The fire is still burning in the fireplace and my dad is up making breakfast. He’s making eggs and sausage in the skillet and already has a cup of coffee ready for me. My sister wakes up 20 minutes later and we all eat breakfast together. After breakfast we throw our paper plates in the fireplace and start beginning to clean up. We first pack up all of our things and then start sweeping and dusting, all the while letting the fires slowly burn out. We’re out the door by 10:30, and ready to go. It snowed again last night as our footprints in the snow are now almost entirely gone. It becomes even more evident as we reach our car that now has a mountain fresh of snow on it. We brush off the snow and head back down the hill and get back on the road. We stop one more time at Wapiti Woolies for more smoothies before we finish our trek home. As we drive, we slowly regain cell services. Texts and notifications slowly begin to funnel in as we return back into the real world. Our annual trip is over, but we’re looking forward to doing it again. 
